What happened to DaeZig a year ago? Why did the Grander DaeZig Empire implode?
What caused Silvian DaeZig, one of the most successful regime establishments
in the nation's history, to collapse?

To answer one of the most vital questions in DaeZig history, we must go back
to October of 2011. At this time DaeZig was enjoying a height in prestige and
prosperity unseen since the middle of the previous decade. Riding on the
momentum built up during the Maleificus Oversight, DaeZig had shed many of the
peculiarities associated with that era to become a respected micronational
power taking its first baby steps onto the world stage. In 2011, humiliating
messages sent by DaeZig to the Westboro Baptist Church caused that
organization to challenge the Internet to a duel, which it lost and continues
to lose today. DaeZig was cheering Anonymous in its war with world powers and
offering to join in at any moment, as an equal, should anything happen to
Anonymous' mother-site 4chan. DaeZig was, in 2011, a Great Power.

There were those, however, in the DaeZig government, who did not subscribe to
the concept of cyber-powers. These people, dubbed pessimists and defeatists,
attached themselves to a more traditional view of the world. DaeZig, as well
as Anonymous, was a minor force breaking established world rules, and no
matter how strong it made itself look it could never stand against the member
states of the United Nations.. or so these people believed. Tallest among
these individuals was Lord Kabaka himself, the Overseer of DaeZig. Kabaka had
dreamed since becoming Overseer in late 2010 of reforming DaeZig to conform
more closely with the world's rules. DaeZig could still be a significant
force, he thought, but only if the micronation built its might on soft power
rather than hard power.

Under Empress Daesiga, DaeZig was ruled by a hardcore nationalistic view.
Right-wingers subscribing to radical ideas ruled the establishment. Reform was
not possible, even by the Overseer. It was unthinkable for anyone to even
propose adopting a platform which denied the nation's inherent exceptionalism
and destiny to become one of the world's major powers. Such a person would be
regarded as a traitor.

Not far into October of 2011, Empress Daesiga resigned. No one quite knows
why. There was no warning given, no proper explanation. Lord Daesiga, Empress
Silvia's hand-picked successor, had ruled DaeZig since 2008. To much of
DaeZig's population who arrived in the 2009 population boom ushered in by Lord
Snow, Daesiga was the only Empress they had ever known. A quiet and stable
figure, Daesiga was seen as a fixture of the DaeZig state. She had pledged to
reign until 2015. The nation reluctantly elected a successor. It was a most
difficult transition. There was protest by the common population, with a
number of people demanding that the resignation declaration not even be
recognized and that someone "talk some sense" into Daesiga. The establishment
did what the establishment was programmed to do, regardless of its
reservations. The Council of Lords, with one of its members (Lord Sakon) in
tears, elected Commander of the Daezaeka Lady Rene as the new Imperial
Sovereign. The Daesigan Era was over.

At first it seemed that Empress Rene would continue the right-wing policies of
her predecessor and perhaps even expand them. The most hardcore of hardcore
nationalists, Rene was a woman who said she would die for DaeZig if necessary.
The hopeless plight of the reformists, condemned to silence and shame and
ridicule, it seemed, would persist. This more aggressive Empress, a dedicated
Ziggist who did not wear a bra in real life, a "shoot first and ask questions
later" diplomat who had been at the heart of crises situations before, seemed
to be everything DaeZig's prevailing powers could possibly want.

But Empress Rene was inexperienced and uneducated in what was going on at the
top of the DaeZig state. Ascending from a middle level position, she had no
idea about the Nationalist-Reformist rivalry just waiting to be unleashed at
any time should she send the wrong signal. The wrong signal was sent in her
casual policy discussions with Lord Kabaka, where he questioned her about the
trajectory of the Grander DaeZig Empire. Was the military promoting an
excessively aggressive line? Yes. Did DaeZig risk getting into trouble? Yes.
Was it wrong for the news agency to compare the country's opponents to vomit
and pledge their destruction? Of course. Without committing to any policy
changes, simply by being innocently blind to the consequences of her private
conversations, of her off the cuff statements, Lord Rene of DeathZig lit the
demolition charges that would bring DaeZig crashing down.

The wall of fear was suddenly broken. Kabaka and his supporters gasped in awe.
They believed at this point that reform of DaeZig had become possible and,
assuming the Empress was on board, began pressing for radical changes to the
most fundamental aspects of DaeZig policy. Lord Kabaka must have been very
confident that his dream of a softer and more mainstream DaeZig was about to
become more than a dream.

But the Empress was not on board. The Empress had said some things which were
interpreted the wrong way. In reality, she was just as nationalistic as Lord
Vamont or Lord Maleificus. And even had the Empress been on board, the
right-wing military establishment would not have allowed a fringe left-wing
reform. It would have sooner turned its bots on the Sovereign than allow the
"feminization" and "defeatistization" of DaeZig by "daezigskeptics".

Things came to a head over a plan to reform DaeZig's news agency to shoot out
less propaganda. Empress Rene disliked propaganda and underestimated its
importance to the DaeZig Right. There was nothing wrong, she thought, with
supporting her Overseer's move to tame the agency. She could not have been any
more wrong.

The moment Empress Rene supported the proposal to reform Voice of DaeZig, the
Right went into panic mode. The military was put on alert as right-wing
leaders discussed amongst themselves what to do. Lord Vamont, Director of the
Black Army, sent a strongly-worded email to the Empress conveying an
uncompromising message: no reform of the news agency will be permitted. The
inexperienced Rene at first did not understand why the military was
threatening her. Once she realized her mistake, she immediately withdrew her
support for the reform, but the damage was already done. The Right and the
military had already seen Kabaka's attempt to betray them and their interests.
They opted to withdraw from their relationship with him.

A fight broke out in NIKOnet early in November. A battle of firey intensity, a
true flame war, erupted between Overseer Kabaka and B.A. Director Lord Vamont.
Insults were exchanged in the capital. This flame war was initiated by Lord
Vamont as a means of showing the military's strength, its willingness to defy
the civilian authorities and its intention to dominate those authorities. It
got out of hand because Kabaka was not only ruffled politically but personally
hurt that his friend would turn on him so viciously. It is worth noting that
the Kabaka-Vamont relationship in the late Daesigan Era had been the
fundamental force of compromise between Left and Right that had allowed DaeZig
to emerge from the rough Maleificus Oversight as a prosperous and powerful
nation. It had been their cooperation that had made DaeZig what it was, and as
their friendship imploded DaeZig's future prospects imploded as well. It was
no one's will to escalate the confrontation to the level of enmity, but
political forces imposed that result.

As parts of the Left radicalized and adopted forbidden positions and the Right
became ever more militant, NIKOnet became dangerous. There was every
possibility that the Kabaka-Vamont flame war would result in a real civil war.
It had to be ended, and so Lord Vamont left NIKOnet. Lord Vamont, Lord Sakon,
the Empress Rene and Lord Entibo all left NIKOnet. They did so because DaeZig
was on the brink of disaster and the only way to prevent a conflict was to cut
off communication between the sides. Lord Kabaka, too, proceeded to leave
NIKOnet. The capital went dead.

Between November of 2011 and May of 2012, it became clear to the average
citizen that something was not quite right in DaeZig. The establishment said
nothing of what had transpired in the capital, but something was off. The
Sinsiran website, under upgrade at the time of the political breakdown, was
left in a bizarre state with missing and malfunctioning components, deformed
content and a lack of administrative activity. Lord Kabaka, depressed with the
whole situation, failed to provide basic services to his people. Sinsira's
nickname registration system failed, IRC Operators were allowed to slack and
promotion campaigns were not pushed. In Vamont, Lord Vamont's namesake
community, things were similarly strange: a forum without images and faltering
public projects. In Vamont, unlike Sinsira, these shortcomings in fact had
more to do with preparations for a possible civil war than morale loss. The
average Vamontian did not feel severe effects.

The Nationalist faction cemented its identity when right-wing leaders
converged on Valstraz in February of 2012. Lord Vamont, along with Lord Sakon
and Lord Maleificus and Empress Rene, formed the Black Army National Political
Commission dedicated to finding a resolution to the situation with Kabaka.
They argued for weeks over whether to maintain the freeze of political
communication until holding early elections in 2013 or to remove Kabaka from
office by force. Eventually the peaceful route was decided upon.

The National Political Commission and the Black Army General Staff did not
simply resolve themselves to a year of stagnation. The military took strong
measures to contain Kabaka behind his back. Troops were deployed to Sinsira to
"prevent lawlessness and citizenship refusal", the latter of which the
left-wing Overseer had long allowed in defiance of the Right. Their "purpose"
there was never declared to Kabaka. Kabaka was boxed into his stronghold on
Sinsira and surrounded by soldiers. Vamont dropped all infrastructure provided
by him and used its own. Daezaer did more or less the same.

May of 2012 was when the crisis exploded, and it was a very peculiar month
indeed. Early in the month, in an effort to shore up support for the Empress,
a huge campaign of celebration was launched. Foreign leaders sent their good
will to DaeZig and its divine Empress. Parties were held. Fanatical glee broke
out across DaeZig. The dire situation and what hints of it were visible to the
general population were completely overshadowed by the Week of May Day
festivities. Nothing was wrong in the world. DaeZig was immortal. DaeZig was
invincible.

Behind the scenes, the National Political Commission members were actually
facing a great deal of anxiety. Kabaka had become more and more pessimistic in
their observations. He appeared, from some viewpoints, to have gone insane. He
insulted the Empress, insulted DaeZig and not only was he consumed by rage..
the withdrawal of activity from NIKOnet led him to believe, in his isolation,
that DaeZig was "dying" and that leaders were "leaving". It became clear that
Lord Kabaka could leave DaeZig any day, and would likely take massive amounts
of infrastructure and segments of the population with him. The National
Political Commission opted.. to try and befriend him again.

On May 7, Lord Vamont initiated his first political contact with Lord Kabaka
since the previous November. The results seemed to bear fruit, far more than
expected. Kabaka agreed to return to the old relationship he had with the
Right, to stop pushing for reforms which were unacceptable to the Right OR the
mainstream Left, to work together. This could have been, or it seemed at the
time it could have been, a new beginning. It wasn't to happen.

"EMERGENCY"!, "DAEZIG FACING SERIOUS CRISIS"! On May 13, a terrorist DDoS
attack brought down DaeZig infrastructure. This was not at all an unusual
event, as such things happened frequently and were usually ignored or used
politically as an excuse for DaeZig to take a tougher line. On this instance,
however, the terrorist mock-campaigner specifically targeted Lord Kabaka. The
terrorists did not know that he was DaeZig's weak point or that he was ready
to leave DaeZig, but nonetheless they threatened to destroy his hosting
company if he did not abandon DaeZig. In the past Kabaka, a great hacker
unafraid of simple thugs, would have laughed such a threat off. However, in
his demoralized state, no longer valuing DaeZig and seeking to salvage his
personal interests, he made the decision as a webhost to terminate all
services provided to DaeZig.

Lord Kabaka finally left DaeZig, indeed taking DaeZig infrastructure and a
portion of the population with him. The Black Army, realizing the damage was
done, stepped in and declared victory in a confrontation that to that day had
been a secret. Military forces descended on Sinsira, replacing critical
infrastructure and battling terrorists. The Right marched and practically sang
with glee, but there were other problems to come.

Empress Rene ascended to the throne with broad hopes of leading DaeZig to even
greater glory. For this to be taken from her by the Kabaka-Vamont Split was a
grave blow to her own morale and personal ambition. Rene had, in fact, slowly
been going more and more inactive over the course of the crisis. This was not
seen as critical, nor did anyone connect the hiatus of the infamously flakey
Empress with the months of argument and stagnation. They did not realize their
own Empress had given up on them.

The absence of the Empress, which continued to increase after Kabaka's
departure, began eating away at the morale of an establishment now facing a
need for massive reconstruction efforts. The damage done during the Kabaka
Stagnation was actually quite extensive and this, combined with the
infrastructure loss caused by his abrupt departure, meant there was much work
to be done. For the second time in 12 months, the loss of an Empress would
prove to be a disaster. Those who could repair the damages and rebuild the
empire lacked the motivation to do so.

Vamont Cina was completely healthy, in contrast to Sinsira. Unlike the central
DaeZig establishment or Sinsira Cina, Vamont had lost no major infrastructure
over the course of the entire Kabaka situation. People in Vamont began
wondering if staying with DaeZig was, in fact, best for Vamont. A terminally
ill DaeZig, with no hope of healing itself, appeared to be weighing a healthy
Vamont down. The Community Administrator, even as he was Director of the Black
Army, shared this concern. Acting against everything he believed in, Lord
Vamont sent an ultimatum to the Empress: get online or Vamont will secede. The
Empress did not respond to the message. Vamont seceded on June 15, five years
to the day after it was annexed into DaeZig by Lord Silvia.

There were predictably rebellions in Vamont by fanatical Nationalists. Lord
Maleificus refused to accept the secession and threatened to himself secede
his home Risardya District from Vamont to rejoin DaeZig. Lord Vamont responded
by razing Risardya to the ground. Lorense-based DaeZig Master Viviano Solard
too stood up and was banished from Vamont along with his staff. Vamont marched
away to flirt with its independence.

Back in DaeZig, Lord Brosin bowed to pressure from Lord Vamont to euthanize
the Grander DaeZig Empire and prevent it from suffering any longer. Brosin
declared the Zaegunsak "terminated", abolishing the DaeZig establishment. On
June 17, 2012, the immortal state of Lord Silvia finally died.
