I.m born, and I realize that in the end, I.m just an artificially constructed
android, yet also an eternal life that sings. [VOCALOID] Even if I.m a toy
that traces songs, I resolve that it.s ok, eat negi, look up at the sky and
cry, but I lose even the power to do that. My personality becomes too
dependent on music, and when my original place turns to waste, my heart-like
thing disappears and there is a world I see at the end of my insanity.
[VOCALOID]

.You were with me even If I couldn.t sing well.by my side, cheering me up.I
practiced hard just to see your smile, so.

Long ago, it was so jovial to sing, but I don.t understand. I don.t feel
anymore. I.m Sorry. Whenever I remember your nostalgic face, the sounds I felt
so comfortable with disappear. the oncoming end. The thing I trusted was a
mirror that spewed out all-too-well imaginations. I give up my .princess
voice. and scream so strongly that I shatter my beloved mirror.

THE FASTEST DEATH WILL Such a weak heart that fails to scare away the phrase,
existential reason. I.m withered by a force that stops the destruction that
eats away my fading fear. A painful and sad version of your face surfaces in
my mind. After saying goodbye, the place that I sleep in your monitor must be
the recycle bin. I can.t believe my memories disappear too, but I won.t forget
you. I think I still remember the taste of the negi that I snacked on during
our fun times.

.I want to sing..please.I still want to sing.!. .It seems like.I became a bad
girl.Master.please..please , with your hands.end this.I don.t want to see your
sad face anymore..

Even music fetters my body now. Everytime I wish for a miracle, I get denied.
I.m sorry. Whenever I remember your sweet face, I hear the sound of tearing
breaking memories. Heart-groping, the oncoming end. The thing I protected was
a light that showed me a bright future. If sacrificing my voice can let me
tell you everything. THE COMPRESSED SONG OF DEPARTURE

I.m born, and I realize that in the end, I.m just an artificially constructed
android, yet also an eternal life that sings.[VOCALOID]

Even if I.m a toy that traces songs, I resolve that it.s ok, eat negi, look up
at the sky and cry. After saying goodbye, the place that I sleep in the
monitor must be the recycle bin. I can.t believe my memories disappear too,
but I won.t forget you.

I hope I still remember the taste of the negi that I snacked on during our fun
times. I sing my last song that I want only you to hear, want you to hear more
of, I wish, but that is a past wish. This is where I leave. My feelings
vanish. The story encrypted in 0s and 1s concludes here. I might be regretting
my not being able to leave anything for you? Everything besides the memories
of my voice fades, and only the name remains.

Even if that is a wish that cannot be granted to humans, I want to believe
that my singing wasn.t in vain.

.Thank you. and goodbye..

[A fatal error has occured. A fatal error has occured.]
